p8105_hw2_ajg2202.md, before:

Homework 2
================
Jeff Goldsmith

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.0 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.2     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.0.3     ✓ dplyr   1.0.2
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.2     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   1.3.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.0

    ## ── Conflicts ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(readxl)
```

## Problem 1

Read the Mr. Trashwheel dataset.

``` r
trashwheel_df = 
    read_xlsx(
        "./data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-7-2020-1.xlsx",
        sheet = "Mr. Trash Wheel",
        range = cell_cols("A:N")) %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    drop_na(dumpster) %>% 
    mutate(
        sports_balls = round(sports_balls),
        sports_balls = as.integer(sports_balls)
    )
```

Read precipitation data\! For 2018 and 2017.

``` r
precip_2018 = 
    read_excel(
        "./data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx",
        sheet = "2018 Precipitation",
        skip = 1
    ) %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    drop_na(month) %>% 
    mutate(year = 2018) %>% 
    relocate(year)

precip_2017 = 
    read_excel(
        "./data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx",
        sheet = "2017 Precipitation",
        skip = 1
    ) %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    drop_na(month) %>% 
    mutate(year = 2017) %>% 
    relocate(year)
```

Now combine annual precipitation.

``` r
month_df = 
    tibble(
        month = 1:12,
        month_name = month.name
    )

precip_df = 
    bind_rows(precip_2018, precip_2017)

left_join(precip_df, month_df, by = "month")
```

    ## # A tibble: 24 x 4
    ##     year month total month_name
    ##    <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <chr>     
    ##  1  2018     1  0.94 January   
    ##  2  2018     2  4.8  February  
    ##  3  2018     3  2.69 March     
    ##  4  2018     4  4.69 April     
    ##  5  2018     5  9.27 May       
    ##  6  2018     6  4.77 June      
    ##  7  2018     7 10.2  July      
    ##  8  2018     8  6.45 August    
    ##  9  2018     9 10.5  September 
    ## 10  2018    10  2.12 October   
    ## # … with 14 more rows

This dataset contains information from the Mr. Trashwheel trash
collector in Baltimore, Maryland. As trash enters the inner harbor, the
trashwheel collects that trash, and stores it in a dumpster. The dataset
contains information on year, month, and trash collected, include some
specific kinds of trash. There are a total of 416 rows in our final
dataset. Additional data sheets include month precipitation data.

Commit message:

some text on helper tibbles for recoding

p8105_hw2_ajg2202.md, after:

Homework 2
================
Jeff Goldsmith

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.0 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.2     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.0.3     ✓ dplyr   1.0.2
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.2     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   1.3.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.0

    ## ── Conflicts ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(readxl)
```

## Problem 1

First, define a path to the dataset.

``` r
path_to_data = "./data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-7-2020-1.xlsx"
```

Read the Mr. Trashwheel dataset.

``` r
trashwheel_df = 
    read_xlsx(
        path = path_to_data,
        sheet = "Mr. Trash Wheel",
        range = cell_cols("A:N")) %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    drop_na(dumpster) %>% 
    mutate(
        sports_balls = round(sports_balls),
        sports_balls = as.integer(sports_balls)
    )
```

Read precipitation data\! For 2018 and 2017.

``` r
precip_2018 = 
    read_excel(
        "./data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-7-2020-1.xlsx",
        sheet = "2018 Precipitation",
        skip = 1
    ) %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    drop_na(month) %>% 
    mutate(year = 2018) %>% 
    relocate(year)

precip_2017 = 
    read_excel(
        "./data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-7-2020-1.xlsx",
        sheet = "2017 Precipitation",
        skip = 1
    ) %>% 
    janitor::clean_names() %>% 
    drop_na(month) %>% 
    mutate(year = 2017) %>% 
    relocate(year)
```

Now combine annual precipitation dataframes. In the following code
chunk, I create a “helper” tibble that contains pairs of numeric and
character ways of representing month, and then merge that (using month
number as a key) with the precipitation dataset. This technique is one I
use often when I need to recode a moderate or large number of values for
a variable.

``` r
month_df = 
    tibble(
        month = 1:12,
        month_name = month.name
    )

precip_df = 
    bind_rows(precip_2018, precip_2017)

precip_df =
    left_join(precip_df, month_df, by = "month")
```

This dataset contains information from the Mr. Trashwheel trash
collector in Baltimore, Maryland. As trash enters the inner harbor, the
trashwheel collects that trash, and stores it in a dumpster. The dataset
contains information on year, month, and trash collected, include some
specific kinds of trash. There are a total of 416 rows in our final
dataset. Additional data sheets include month precipitation data.
